hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here back
in Clermont again and let me say
wherever you are in the world there's no
place like home
I do have an overnighter to Minneapolis
next week but other than that I'm
staying put
now that all the hubbub is over and all
the China experts in analysts not to
mention the people of China have weighed
in with their two cents I thought it
wouldn't be a bad idea for us to focus
on Xi Jinping and look at his life and
this recent visit from the backdrop of
China's recent history and this way we
can gain a historical perspective about
the events that have shaped his life
well he came he saw and he conquered
that is to say everything went according
to the script and wherever Xi Jinping
went he was greeted with the usual
suspects as far as the main protein and
anti China groups go but hey this is all
old hat for China and they are expert at
working around these problems everyone
in the PRC your leader did find most of
the way boss I've read have also given
Xi Jinping the thumbs up these visits by
China's leaders are so risky these days
in this day and age especially where
mister she was going the kind of
spontaneous moments that could happen
these days they can be caught on camera
or video and in an Internet instant
there could be a hundred thousand tweets
and ten million way boss spreading the
embarrassing moment around but he got
out alive and didn't get splattered with
any mud that I know of he's a handsome
guy yeah I'll call him SHhhh why a nice
presentable leader and he speaks
beautiful Mandarin well relatively
speaking of course when I watched those
old videos of them shell king and
Chairman Mao giving speeches they're not
even speaking Mandarin Mao is speaking
his Xiao Xiang version of the Hunan
dialect and dung spoken the su chuan
dialect Jiang sameen yeah not so easy to
understand Ho Jintao was an improvement
in any case I'm sure the while Beijing
had no trouble
standing them but xi jinping this leader
in waiting I'd even consider his
Mandarin suitable third you know those
language podcasts or CDs he's nice and
standard well English is not his
strength and with John Huntsman out of
the u.s. presidential race it looks like
the leaders of the US and China whoever
ends up getting elected for yet another
generation of leaders aren't going to
share a common lingua franca that would
allow them to you know have a cozier
relationship
well not the end of the world though I
had too many distractions this week let
me say that right up front I got back to
the US the day before Valentine's Day
the next four days were a blur and I
will spare you the agony some details so
I was too distracted to watch his visit
in the kind of detail that I wish I
could have if you were glued to your TV
sets and news feeds and watched every
detail than this podcast on Xi Jinping
might be old hat unless there's some
cataclysmic upheaval at the very top of
Part II which given the recent turn of
events in Chongqing and chengdu i guess
anything's possible but barring the
unexpected and improbable come March of
2013 Xi Jinping will become the next
president of China as we'll see in this
podcast he's got the perfect background
and besides that the two main factions
at the pinnacle of power in China the
Jung's amine faction the hogeol faction
they both agreed on XI one thing to know
about mr. XI and this was not true of
the current president who Jintao and his
predecessor James amine Xi Jinping is
CCP royalty in China if you were related
to the first generation of leaders
Chairman Mao chill and light rude you
know those guys you were a blueblood in
true ccp royalty I guess leepung was was
an example being the adopted son of
Joanne lie so when he became premier he
was of that most elite of the CCP well
so is Xi Jinping
now he wasn't related to any one of the
first generation but his dad she joan
shootin was a major mover and shaker of
the second generation the generation of
them shellping and it was she Jonghyun
who you recall from the 8th part time
shellping episode who played a leading
role in the development of the special
economic zones particularly in Shenzhen
she Chong soon was an erstwhile Ally of
dong and we'll see in a moment the good
and bad of that it was she Chong shewn
whose home and whose power base was in
Shaanxi province and he was among those
present who welcomed Chairman Mao and
you know the other leaders at the
conclusion of the long march in yen on
so he went way back she joins shootin
was a deputy premier during the Great
Leap Forward years and governor of
Guangdong province during the critical
years of 1979 80 81 two of his protegees
are the current president and premier of
China who Jintao and Wen Jiabao but for
the 16 years from 1962 to 1978 he was in
political disgrace you all remember Kang
Chun the evil watchdog of Chairman Mao
in 1962 when she ran afoul of Mao the
great helmsman gave Cong Chung the scent
of Shi Tong shootin and turned Khan
loose right before the tenth plenum and
as always the sinister Kang Chung did
his job well and that was it for Vice
Premier Shi Ishi jongshin and his whole
family including the subject of today's
episode Xi Jinping their fortunes took a
turn for the worse
the whole family for better or for worse
was tied to their famous father those
were 16 years in political oblivion 1962
to 1968 and they helped shape Xi Jinping
as I suppose they would have shaped
anyone in that situation the legacy of
XI Jonghyun well I saw it last week when
I spent three days in Fujian in Shenzhen
of course credit for the success of the
whole reform and opening up to the
outside were
old ultimately goes to thunk shout ping
he was the one you know credited with
having the vision and the one leader who
had the guts to lay his head on the
chopping block and take this immense
risk but like all the greatest leaders
Dunn had to have a game to carry out his
big ideas and make them happen he didn't
do this by himself and for the
development of Guangdong province and
the setting up of the SCC's there Dung's
man was she jongshin who he brought back
from oblivion and she did a great job
and people in Guangdong never forgot
this guy and just as they honor him up
in his native shiny Shi he's also one of
the heroes down in Guangdong and
certainly in the SE Z of Shenzhen our
hero today Xi Jinping
born in the year of the snake June 1st
1953 which as we heard and read all week
makes him 58 years old at the time of
this podcast same birthday as Ronnie
Wood Ronnie's a little older like I said
he was of the party aristocracy so it
was only fitting that this ski on of
such a high-ranking personage as XI
Jonghyun was born in that great city
founded by Kublai Khan the city of
Beijing now Xi Jinping is still
considered as Shang Shiren because of
his father's ties to fool Penn County in
China's great historic province of
Shaanxi this was within an hour's drive
of Xian so that's where Xi Jinping hails
from even though circumstances gave him
the privilege not to mention all the
conveniences that came with growing up
in Beijing but live by the sword die by
the sword when your world orbited Mao
Zedong anything could happen
so when XI Johnson fell out of favor his
family fell with them and so began that
part of Xi Jinping's life which well in
many ways inoculated himself against
later claims that he's a princeling who
had it easy he may have been a
princeling but look what good that got
him not even ten years old yet nine
sixty-two in his world gets turned
upside down by 1969 when the Cultural
Revolution is fully revved up these 16
years old live in a little east of yen
on yes the yen on of that most famous
revolutionary periods this is
northernmost China she province he spent
six years there and that's where Xi
Jinping began his rise up the cursus
honorum
of the CCP it all began there during
those formative years living on a
commune working hard living simply with
humility performing manual labor nothing
glamorous by a long shot
with of course the sword of his father's
disgrace hanging over his head the whole
time but in his ancestral land of
Shaanxi province where his father was
still considered one of them xi Jinping
was looked after he lived in the village
of Liang jaha which as I mentioned was
not too far to the east of yen on in yen
Trond County not a vacation resort kind
of a place in many interviews and
passages taken from previous interviews
Xi Jinping made it no secret that these
years eating bitterness with all the
other residents of this rugged part of
China it had a big impact on him and
when he's often portrayed as a man of
the people it all starts here when
despite the prestige and authority that
his father had prior to 1962 he was just
as common as a next shiny sheep peasant
or worker whose family had been scratch
in that wrong tool or yellow soil going
back to the days before Confucius he
lived in a cave which in that part of
China was common because of the geology
in that region he had those yellow
cliffs everywhere where a man could
easily carve out a nice little
habitation for his family Xi Jinping put
up with fleas sleeping on a Cong bad
food millet porridge all the time hard
work doing farm chores
he ran away at first when he first got
there but he got rounded up
sent back and that's when he decided to
embrace his fate rather than fight it so
despite being banished to the wilderness
he embraces the very CCP the very
communist party that took him as a young
lad from his comfortable Beijing
existence and into this world that he
was utterly unfamiliar with and in such
volatile in terrible times so what did
he do there and how did he make the best
of it 1971 is eighteen years old after
many failed attempts he joins the
Communist Youth League this is the
logical first step and then 1974 he
joins the Communist Party it's 21 years
old he initially got involved in local
party politics and yen Shuang you know
the kind of stuff where where you first
begin to navigate the oceans of the CCP
now he can't help it that he was xi
jongshin's son you can't choose who your
parents are for someone of Xi Jinping's
generation who grew up in his
circumstances it wasn't always a good
thing to have a top leader as a parent
now at this point in 74 when he enters
the party it's not easy to trade on his
father's name yet because XI jongshin is
still not rehabilitated so to some
extent at the outset Xi Jinping has to
find his own way the next year in 1975
he gets some fringe benefits from being
a member of the party and starts a four
year program at Ching hua University and
there he famously studies chemical
engineering looks great on the resume
Ching hua to those who are not familiar
is one of the three most preeminent
universities in all of China
Peking U and food on being the others
it's like MIT Yale and Harvard not only
because of the prestige enjoyed by the
quality of the academics there but also
for producing a hefty concentration of
graduates who still today go on and make
something of their lives or go shake the
world in some way the current president
of China who Jean tal in the previous
premier Jurong JEE are famous ching
alums so this was a nice environment for
Xi Jinping to wait out the last year's
of the Cultural Revolution by the time
he entered Cheng hua
the ten years of chaos were in the final
two years the worst was over and by the
time he graduates from Cheng hua 1979
his father had been pulled up from the
tombs by them Xiao Peng was busy down in
southern China earning his later epithet
as the architect of the special economic
zones his first job out of college he
works in the capacity of secretary of
the general office of the State Council
the general office did anyone ever see
Terry Gilliam's masterpiece Brazil the
general office was in a way like Central
Services in the movie this is the actual
administrative machine that runs China
it's headed by the premier and it's one
massive bureaucracy in Chinese is called
the guapa
now secretary is not the same as
Secretary General so our hero is not
starting at the top but here we start to
see the common thread that runs through
Xi Jinping's career he never messes up
he does his job with accuracy and
efficiency never falls under a cloud of
suspicion says or does all the right
things and builds a reputation for
building a consensus wherever he goes
he's not a maverick
not someone who goes over the line he
did a well enough job in the general
office to earn a promotion and here 1979
26 years old and he gets a job working
for the revolutionary military hero Gong
Piaf in the general office of the CMC
the Central Military Commission again as
he was at the state council general
office he serves in a nice low-risk
position of secretary and it's by this
time the Cultural Revolution is over
dung Xiao ping has made his comeback and
his father is resurrected and so rather
than being a liability having his father
back in the picture now allowed him to
make his entree into the CMC maybe you
saw Xi Jinping this week on Tuesday
during a visit to the Pentagon well what
was he doing there
there was a wonderful photo of China's
future presidents inspecting an honor
guard and receiving a 19-gun salute
outside the Pentagon all bundled up but
looking nice and dignified this was the
first time the Defense Department had
arranged such a highfalutin military
ceremony for a visiting vice president I
could only imagine the horse-trading
that must have been going on between
Chinese and American diplomats about how
this whole reality show was gonna be
scripted it was very important back in
the home country that Xi Jinping looked
good on this trip a lot of people in
China had a lot riding on the success of
this visit she was there Tuesday to meet
Leon Panetta our American version of the
Guan bojong Defence Minister she earned
his right to walk into that meeting with
the defense secretary from this earliest
association with China's military which
started right here in 1979 to 1982 he's
still in his 20s his years as an
official in the general office of the
CMC the central services for the
military in Xi Jinping gets a nice start
he begins his long association with the
PLA and as China's future president
having these pre-existing relationships
in these two massive bureaucracies can
only help and of course his father was a
military hero and in China just as an
America that's a badge of pride that a
lot of people feel for their parents if
any one of them served with valor in the
military the party obviously by 1983 had
big plans for him he's now 30 years old
and proved he was no slouch or lazy
second generation his record was still
unblemished and so for 17 years from
1985 to 2002 Xi Jinping was on the move
climbing up the CCP ladder one rung at a
time first of Hebei province then Fujian
finally in judge young and Shanghai now
this doesn't mean to say he wasn't ever
in Beijing he was probably taking the
red-eye
flight all the time back and forth from
wherever he was based remember shaman in
Fujian at this time is a special
economic zone he's on the Standing
Committee of the party offices and
shaman and was starting to become
somebody she was certainly rising fast
and booming Fujian province and he
served there in a number of positions a
deputy mayor of shaman and then in the
military she Jinping's Fujian adventure
is what made him besides executive
authority and party Affairs he was
knee-deep in the other things that came
along with a leadership position in
Fujian there was the whole economic side
of Fujian and there was also the matter
of fugiens neighbor across the strait so
she Jean pinga very closely involved in
China Taiwan relations and boy you
really had to tread carefully where that
was concerned but he walked away from
his whole Fujian experience very much
enriched in 1985 she is now 32 and this
was the year he also made his now-famous
trip to Muscatine Iowa little town right
on the border with my home state of
Illinois the press covered this little
sideshow quite a bit this week when 27
years later she returned to visit the
home of the land fan Li the first
Americans he had ever come to know glad
they gave him a good impression this was
during his closing days in Hebei when he
was visiting the US as part of some herb
a iowa sister state exchange and he
famously stayed down the street from the
lands at the dvork sleeping in their
sons bedroom that was all decked out
with star trek decorations and
paraphernalia 2002 was a pivotal year
for Xi Jinping she really makes it to
the big top when in 2002 he's elected to
the 16th Central Committee of the party
and also made governor of Jiujiang
province which I dared to call the
California of China only because of the
size of their economy strategic
importance to the country and the
particular industriousness of the judge
young people
this was a very important posting so
2002 to 2007 he was injured young and
Shanghai and he's also a central
committee member in September 2006 some
of you might recall the city of Shanghai
had one of those famous high-profile
corruption scandals that saw the
untouchable Chen Liang Yu mayor and
later party secretary of Shanghai jailed
on a number of pretty serious charges
although the party did their utmost to
sweep this whole affair under the rug
quietly any China watcher knows what
happened and it's these kinds of things
that have a particularly bad smell to
them so Chen Lian Yu
was booted out of the top spot in
Shanghai and in his place at least until
the dust settled was put Xi Jinping it
was a brief tenure as Shanghai party
boss in 2007 but that really
fast-tracked Xi Jinping to the epidermis
of the party hierarchy that was a pretty
big ah people there and by the time she
left the post and handed things off to
you jung chung what can I say
the patient was stabilized in a 2007
after a job well done in Shanghai he
also makes it to the 17th Central
Committee to the party one of the lucky
350 or so when 2010 rolled around he had
served long enough in his capacity as a
PLA political officer that when he was
made a vice chairman of the Central
Military Commission nobody could say he
didn't you know work his way up to the
top or almost the top that vice
chairmanship of the CMC was no
ceremonial position he had a real power
base there and actual experience and
relationships developed over half his
career and as we all know this
seventeenth Central Committee of the
Chinese Communist Party is the current
reigning champ and it will be all
finalised this year in October
presumably who will be the line up to
the 18th Central Committee who will be
in the Politburo and drumroll maestro
who will comprise
final 9 the Standing Committee the
suspense is killing me
in March 2013 after the 12th National
People's Congress
that's when she Jinping will actually
take office as state president and if
all goes according to the master plan
he's going to be the core of the party
until 2023 2024 for the time being among
other things she is vice president of
the state vice chairman of the CMC he's
also the principal or president of the
party school he's also one of the six
members of the 17th Central Committee
party Secretariat in charge of all
personnel matters related to the state
to the party in the all-powerful 9 Man
Standing Committee he is ranked number
six behind Eugene Tao Liu bang Gua Wen
Jiabao Joe Cheng Lin and Li Chang Chun
this week in the US Vice President Xi
has been dissected by the press and by
China analysts six ways to Sunday
there's been a lot of repeating his
official bio and you know when you
search the internet for info on Xi
Jinping it's a lot of the same old
repetitive boring stuff the same
official who wrote who Gentiles bio they
called him in to handle Xi Jinping's
also I think the reason is that the
special thing about the future president
is he's managed to navigate some very
shark-filled waters for a very long time
from his entry into the party in 1974
and I guess you could say all the way up
to this most recent trip Xi Jinping has
plated cool remained blemish-free
never did anything that you know got him
in trouble and as far as his rep earned
as a man of the people you know there's
plenty of true stories circulating
around over the course of his life and
career you know he talked the talk and
walk the walk and he has a daughter same
age as mine who famously goes to Harvard
and his wife as it's been reported
ad nauseam is a major star
in China known throughout the land since
she exploded onto the scene in 1982
she's a stalwart at all the annual
Chinese New Year official CCTV galas and
the most famous folk singer in all of
China polygon Mick and Keith are nothing
compared to pond leader and in China so
Xi Jinping has that nice requisite
interesting and perfect family and I'm
sure his wife will make a great first
lady she's also a Major General in a PLA
song and dance troupe and what is there
to say except this adds a nice
interesting human interest twist
- she's regnal period when it begins
well this past week including this
recent visit to my little corner of the
world in Southern California Xi
Jinping's starred in his own reality
show albeit a scripted and may I say
from the dearth of diplomatically
embarrassing things that happened and
excellently choreographed visit as well
on the Chinese
and on the American side everyone knew
well in advance what issues were going
to be raised this is a rite of passage
for any visiting Chinese later I think
who gene tal received his his ribbon in
1992 so when she was face to face with
his counterpart Vice President Joe Biden
and when he had his brush with President
Obama and with other leaders the whole
loss autre problemas the sino US trade
imbalance the RMB cybersecurity China's
defense build-up Tibet human rights
North Korea Iran Taiwan ouch all those
issues xi jinping new way in advance he
was gonna get an earful and he took it
all in stride and I'm sure you know
behind the scenes officials on both
sides were you know pre arranging how
much heat could be turned up on any one
issue well China's officials all have
their boilerplate responses to all these
issues and everyone got to look good in
some shape or form with their
constituents whoever they were at last
and last Friday night he took in the
fourth quarter the Lakers game against
Phoenix and he sat with Mayor
Villaraigosa and Governor Brown backs
and magic stopped by to pay their
respects and he got to sit in the AEG
luxury box I mean what more do you want
yeah he got the whole treatment and if
he would stayed longer I'm sure the
powers-that-be could have dragged out
every major movie star who was in town
that night and then after the game his
motorcade took him to LAX and off into
the night he went to the Emerald Isle Xi
Jinping is now in Ireland of any heads
to Turkey but the big one at least is
out of the way and hopefully between now
and the moment he touches down in
Beijing Xi Jinping will have a smooth
trip this was important this man is
going to be China's next leader now this
is a misnomer as most of our aware the
days of Chairman Mao and dong Xiao ping
acting as the undisputed strongman in
charge are over the way the party likes
to do it is just like you saw with who
Jintao and like we're seeing now is Xi
Jinping from the whole eight part on
shellping series we saw how the country
really suffered at times of transition
at the top
so once Jung Zameen found his stride
after 1989 the party got smart and said
from now on we're gonna write this
screenplay ourselves rather than risk
any live impromptu performance when the
time comes and so this whole US Ireland
turkey visit was all just another act in
the play boo boo step by step there's
still plenty more hoops to jump through
before Xi Jinping is standing with the
other eight on that stage and the Great
Hall of the People sometime this October
in the place of honor of course Xi
Jinping will be the first among equals
that's the way things work in China he
kept being referred to as China's future
later or leader and waiting but it's
actually the whole Standing Committee
those nine guys they are the deciders
not any single one of them has
over the other and they don't all get
along or see eye-to-eye i liken them to
the US Supreme Court justices everything
is consensus with those guys and if
there's anything xi jinping must be an
expert in by now it's in building
relationships and achieving things
through consensus and so today we looked
at this man Xi Jinping and sort of
overlaid his career on top of the
history timeline that is the PRC he was
born just shy of four years after
liberation 1949 he was a son of a
historic person who has made it into the
history books not only for his military
exploits but also for his work in the
political and economic arena as well xi
Jinping was only a small boy when Mao
began stirring things up in the late 50s
with all his zany ideas and privilege
allowed him to survive the Great Leap
Forward and the subsequent famine but
being born in the early to mid 1950s
like he was Xi Jinping like millions and
millions of others was the perfect age
to get caught up in the worst of the
Cultural Revolution they were uprooted
from their middle schools and high
schools and everything was shut down and
off to the countryside all these
students went no school anymore and Xi
Jinping well you know he was lucky but
most weren't and being uprooted like
they were was difficult to bounce back
from you know this rusta fication
campaign people's lives were ruined to
this day there's no question that his
father's connections were able to grease
the wheels and make his road easier
after 1978 but we all know it's one
thing to get into positions of authority
it's another thing to actually have
talent and ability and no need to go
into too much detail about all the
abuses that go on once people are put
into positions of power and authority so
as China opened up in the 1980s when the
whole dung shopping thing happened in
full force and into the 90s when China
was just about to go into afterburner Xi
Jinping was part of that machinery
playing his part
loke incorruptible effective and a team
player and he never got caught being
drunk or disorderly taking backhanders
from corrupt businessmen or doing
anything inappropriate so is this all a
good thing or a bad thing what was the
whole takeaway from this visit of Vice
President Xi no one knows I guess didn't
come to negotiate any treaties or
anything like that for years
everyone in the government in the press
hair and in business everyone sort of
knew who he was and if they couldn't
pronounce his name at least they'd read
his bio but this week was all about
getting to know Xi Jinping a little more
see him up close what he looked like how
he acted as the JK Simmons character
says to Palmer at the end of burn after
reading what have we learned here I
don't think anyone knows but the fact
that this future president got in and
got out unscathed and had a very
respectable amount of well respect paid
to him at the very least it was a good
PR event that certainly had a positive
impact on us-china relations and I'm all
for that whenever and wherever if I'm
still doing this podcast ten years from
now we'll have an episode where we can
review how he did if any of you haven't
caught the latest Melvyn Bragg in our
time podcast stop everything you're
doing and go download that one right now
this show features the an Lucien
rebellion and one of the three experts
on the program this time is the very
Francis wood whose book I featured in
that previous Silk Road podcast number
73 listen for yourselves everyone would
a real China expert sounds like she's
the lead curator of Chinese at the
British Library and it's a shame dr.
wood herself doesn't have the time to
bring you weekly China history podcasts
so instead you're stuck with the great
imposter Lazlo Montgomery anyways that's
my two cents
this is Lazlo Montgomery on behalf of
everyone here at the China history
podcast wishing you all the very best
join us next week for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast